README.md, before:

# Storage 🗄
[![Swift Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-4.2-brightgreen.svg)](http://swift.org)
[![Vapor Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vapor-3-30B6FC.svg)](http://vapor.codes)
[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/nodes-vapor/storage/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/nodes-vapor/storage)
[![codebeat badge](https://codebeat.co/badges/58eeca2c-7b58-4aea-9b09-d80e3b79de19)](https://codebeat.co/projects/github-com-nodes-vapor-storage-master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/nodes-vapor/storage/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/nodes-vapor/storage)
[![Readme Score](http://readme-score-api.herokuapp.com/score.svg?url=https://github.com/nodes-vapor/storage)](http://clayallsopp.github.io/readme-score?url=https://github.com/nodes-vapor/storage)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nodes-vapor/storage/master/LICENSE)

A package to ease the use of multiple storage and CDN services.


##### Table of Contents
* [Getting started](#getting-started-)
* [Upload a file](#upload-a-file-)
  * [Base 64 and data URI](#base-64-and-data-uri-)
* [Download a file](#download-a-file-)
* [Get CDN path](#get-cdn-path-)
* [Delete a file](#delete-a-file-)
* [Configuration](#configuration-)
  * [Network driver](#network-driver-)
  * [Upload path](#upload-path-)


## 📦 Installation

Add `Storage` to the package dependencies (in your `Package.swift` file):
```swift
dependencies: [
    ...,
    .package(url: "https://github.com/nodes-vapor/storage.git", from: "1.0.0-beta")
]
```

as well as to your target (e.g. "App"):

```swift
targets: [
    ...
    .target(
        name: "App",
        dependencies: [... "Storage" ...]
    ),
    ...
]
```

## Getting started 🚀
Storage makes it easy to start uploading and downloading files. Just register a [network driver](#network-driver-) and get going.

## Upload a file 🌐

There are a few different interfaces for uploading a file, the simplest being the following:
```swift
Storage.upload(
    bytes: [UInt8],
    fileName: String?,
    fileExtension: String?,
    mime: String?,
    folder: String,
    on container: Container 
) throws -> String
```
The aforementioned function will attempt to upload the file using your [selected driver and template](#configuration-) and will return a `String` representing the location of the file.

If you want to upload an image named `profile.png` your call site would look like:
```swift
try Storage.upload(
    bytes: bytes,
    fileName: "profile.png",
    on: req
)
```

#### Base64 and data URI 📡
Is your file a base64 or data URI? No problem!
```swift
Storage.upload(base64: "SGVsbG8sIFdvcmxkIQ==", fileName: "base64.txt", on: req)
Storage.upload(dataURI: "data:,Hello%2C%20World!", fileName: "data-uri.txt", on: req)
```

#### Remote resources 
Download an asset from a URL and then reupload it to your storage server.
```swift
Storage.upload(url: "http://mysite.com/myimage.png", fileName: "profile.png", on: req)
```


## Download a file ✅

To download a file that was previously uploaded you simply use the generated path.
```swift
// download image as `Foundation.Data`
let data = try Storage.get("/images/profile.png", on: req)
```


## Get CDN path

Here is how you generate the CDN path to a given asset.
```swift
let cdnPath = Storage.getCDNPath(for: path)
```

If your CDN path is more involved than `cdnUrl` + `path`, you can build out Storage's optional completionhandler to override the default functionality.

```swift
Storage.cdnPathBuilder = { baseURL, path in
    let joinedPath = (baseURL + path)
    return joinedPath.replacingOccurrences(of: "/images/original/", with: "/image/")
}
```


## Delete a file ❌

Deleting a file using this package isn't the recommended way to handle removal, but is still possible.
```swift
try Storage.delete("/images/profile.png")
```


## Configuration ⚙

`Storage` has a variety of configurable options.

#### Network driver 🔨
The network driver is the module responsible for interacting with your 3rd party service. The default, and currently the only, driver is `s3`.
```swift
import Storage

let driver = try S3Driver(
    bucket: "bucket", 
    accessKey: "access",
    secretKey: "secret"
)

services.register(driver)
```
`bucket`, `accessKey`and `secretKey` are required by the S3 driver, while `template`, `host` and `region` are optional. `region` will default to `eu-west-1` and `host` will default to `s3.amazonaws.com`.

#### Upload path 🛣
A times, you may need to upload files to a different scheme than `/file.ext`. You can achieve this by adding the `"template"` field to your `Config/storage.json`. If the field is omitted it will default to `/#file`.

The following template will upload `profile.png` from the folder `images` to `/myapp/images/profile.png`
```json
"template": "/myapp/#folder/#file"
```

##### Aliases
Aliases are special keys in your template that will be replaced with dynamic information at the time of upload.

 *Note: if you use an alias and the information wasn't provided at the file upload's callsite, Storage will throw a `missingX`/`malformedX` error.*

`#file`: The file's name and extension.

```
File: "test.png"
Returns: test.png
```

---

`#fileName`: The file's name.

```
File: "test.png"
Returns: test
```

---

`#fileExtension`: The file's extension.

```
File: "test.png"
Returns: png
```

---

`#folder`: The provided folder.

```
File: "uploads/test.png"
Returns: uploads
```

---

`#mime`: The file's content type.

```
File: "test.png"
Returns: image/png
```

---

`#mimeFolder`: A folder generated according to the file's mime.

This alias will check the file's mime and if it's an image, it will return `images/original` else it will return `data`

```
File: "test.png"
Returns: images/original
```

---

`#day`: The current day.

```
File: "test.png"
Date: 12/12/2012
Returns: 12
```

---

`#month`: The current month.

```
File: "test.png"
Date: 12/12/2012
Returns: 12
```

---

`#year`: The current year.

```
File: "test.png"
Date: 12/12/2012
Returns: 2012
```

---

`#timestamp`: The time of upload.

```
File: "test.png"
Time: 17:05:00
Returns: 17:05:00
```

---

`#uuid`: A generated UUID.

 ```
File: "test.png"
Returns: 123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000
```

---
## 🏆 Credits

This package is developed and maintained by the Vapor team at [Nodes](https://www.nodesagency.com).
The package owner for this project is [Brett](https://github.com/brettRToomey).


## 📄 License

This package is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Commit message:

Add docs to CDN base url

README.md, after:

# Storage 🗄
[![Swift Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-4.2-brightgreen.svg)](http://swift.org)
[![Vapor Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vapor-3-30B6FC.svg)](http://vapor.codes)
[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/nodes-vapor/storage/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/nodes-vapor/storage)
[![codebeat badge](https://codebeat.co/badges/58eeca2c-7b58-4aea-9b09-d80e3b79de19)](https://codebeat.co/projects/github-com-nodes-vapor-storage-master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/nodes-vapor/storage/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/nodes-vapor/storage)
[![Readme Score](http://readme-score-api.herokuapp.com/score.svg?url=https://github.com/nodes-vapor/storage)](http://clayallsopp.github.io/readme-score?url=https://github.com/nodes-vapor/storage)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nodes-vapor/storage/master/LICENSE)

A package to ease the use of multiple storage and CDN services.


##### Table of Contents
* [Getting started](#getting-started-)
* [Upload a file](#upload-a-file-)
  * [Base 64 and data URI](#base-64-and-data-uri-)
* [Download a file](#download-a-file-)
* [Get CDN path](#get-cdn-path-)
* [Delete a file](#delete-a-file-)
* [Configuration](#configuration-)
  * [Network driver](#network-driver-)
  * [Upload path](#upload-path-)


## 📦 Installation

Add `Storage` to the package dependencies (in your `Package.swift` file):
```swift
dependencies: [
    ...,
    .package(url: "https://github.com/nodes-vapor/storage.git", from: "1.0.0-beta")
]
```

as well as to your target (e.g. "App"):

```swift
targets: [
    ...
    .target(
        name: "App",
        dependencies: [... "Storage" ...]
    ),
    ...
]
```

## Getting started 🚀
Storage makes it easy to start uploading and downloading files. Just register a [network driver](#network-driver-) and get going.

## Upload a file 🌐

There are a few different interfaces for uploading a file, the simplest being the following:
```swift
Storage.upload(
    bytes: [UInt8],
    fileName: String?,
    fileExtension: String?,
    mime: String?,
    folder: String,
    on container: Container 
) throws -> String
```
The aforementioned function will attempt to upload the file using your [selected driver and template](#configuration-) and will return a `String` representing the location of the file.

If you want to upload an image named `profile.png` your call site would look like:
```swift
try Storage.upload(
    bytes: bytes,
    fileName: "profile.png",
    on: req
)
```

#### Base64 and data URI 📡
Is your file a base64 or data URI? No problem!
```swift
Storage.upload(base64: "SGVsbG8sIFdvcmxkIQ==", fileName: "base64.txt", on: req)
Storage.upload(dataURI: "data:,Hello%2C%20World!", fileName: "data-uri.txt", on: req)
```

#### Remote resources 
Download an asset from a URL and then reupload it to your storage server.
```swift
Storage.upload(url: "http://mysite.com/myimage.png", fileName: "profile.png", on: req)
```


## Download a file ✅

To download a file that was previously uploaded you simply use the generated path.
```swift
// download image as `Foundation.Data`
let data = try Storage.get("/images/profile.png", on: req)
```


## Get CDN path

In order to use the CDN path convenience, you'll have to set the CDN base url on Storage, e.g. in your `configure.swift` file:

```swift
Storage.cdnBaseURL = "https://cdn.vapor.cloud"
```

Here is how you generate the CDN path to a given asset.
```swift
let cdnPath = Storage.getCDNPath(for: path)
```

If your CDN path is more involved than `cdnUrl` + `path`, you can build out Storage's optional completionhandler to override the default functionality.

```swift
Storage.cdnPathBuilder = { baseURL, path in
    let joinedPath = (baseURL + path)
    return joinedPath.replacingOccurrences(of: "/images/original/", with: "/image/")
}
```


## Delete a file ❌

Deleting a file using this package isn't the recommended way to handle removal, but is still possible.
```swift
try Storage.delete("/images/profile.png")
```


## Configuration ⚙

`Storage` has a variety of configurable options.

#### Network driver 🔨
The network driver is the module responsible for interacting with your 3rd party service. The default, and currently the only, driver is `s3`.
```swift
import Storage

let driver = try S3Driver(
    bucket: "bucket", 
    accessKey: "access",
    secretKey: "secret"
)

services.register(driver)
```
`bucket`, `accessKey`and `secretKey` are required by the S3 driver, while `template`, `host` and `region` are optional. `region` will default to `eu-west-1` and `host` will default to `s3.amazonaws.com`.

#### Upload path 🛣
A times, you may need to upload files to a different scheme than `/file.ext`. You can achieve this by adding the `"template"` field to your `Config/storage.json`. If the field is omitted it will default to `/#file`.

The following template will upload `profile.png` from the folder `images` to `/myapp/images/profile.png`
```json
"template": "/myapp/#folder/#file"
```

##### Aliases
Aliases are special keys in your template that will be replaced with dynamic information at the time of upload.

 *Note: if you use an alias and the information wasn't provided at the file upload's callsite, Storage will throw a `missingX`/`malformedX` error.*

`#file`: The file's name and extension.

```
File: "test.png"
Returns: test.png
```

---

`#fileName`: The file's name.

```
File: "test.png"
Returns: test
```

---

`#fileExtension`: The file's extension.

```
File: "test.png"
Returns: png
```

---

`#folder`: The provided folder.

```
File: "uploads/test.png"
Returns: uploads
```

---

`#mime`: The file's content type.

```
File: "test.png"
Returns: image/png
```

---

`#mimeFolder`: A folder generated according to the file's mime.

This alias will check the file's mime and if it's an image, it will return `images/original` else it will return `data`

```
File: "test.png"
Returns: images/original
```

---

`#day`: The current day.

```
File: "test.png"
Date: 12/12/2012
Returns: 12
```

---

`#month`: The current month.

```
File: "test.png"
Date: 12/12/2012
Returns: 12
```

---

`#year`: The current year.

```
File: "test.png"
Date: 12/12/2012
Returns: 2012
```

---

`#timestamp`: The time of upload.

```
File: "test.png"
Time: 17:05:00
Returns: 17:05:00
```

---

`#uuid`: A generated UUID.

 ```
File: "test.png"
Returns: 123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000
```

---
## 🏆 Credits

This package is developed and maintained by the Vapor team at [Nodes](https://www.nodesagency.com).
The package owner for this project is [Brett](https://github.com/brettRToomey).


## 📄 License

This package is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
